JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff. Gwen Ifill is
away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
Russia flexes its muscle in the
Middle East, launching
airstrikes
in Syria and sending military
advisers into Iraq. Margaret
Warner sits down with the Iraqi
prime minister, Haider al-Abadi.
Also ahead this Wednesday: a
major setback in Afghanistan, as
U.S.-led coalition forces
grapple with Taliban insurgents
who have seized a crucial city
in the north.
Plus: how a surge of patients on
Medicaid is straining the health
care system in California.
DR. TED MAZER, San Diego: Why am
I seeing all of those people?
Because nobody else is
available in their communities
to see them. Why not? Because
the rates are unacceptable,
the hassles from the managed
care plans, as well as the
state, are unacceptable to most
offices to deal with.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Moscow's military
buildup in Syria came to full
flower today, with the
opening of an air barrage. The
Russians said they're targeting
the Islamic State, but that
claim was disputed. And American
officials issued a series of
warnings about where the
airstrikes could lead. We will
have a full report after the
news summary.
In Afghanistan, the Taliban kept
a tight grip on a major
provincial capital they overran
on Monday, and Afghan government
forces faced the prospect of a
critical test when they
try to take it back.
William Brangham reports
on the day's developments.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Afghan troops
could be seen in action around
Kunduz today, as fighting
raged for a third day. And the
local police chief insisted
they're making progress, backed
up by U.S. airstrikes.
MAN (through translator): The
situation is better now. As you
are aware, some areas have
been retaken by security forces.
The operation is ongoing. We
retook the new police
headquarters,
the jail and some
parts of the city.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But there was
no sign of a broader
counteroffensive, and a regional
official complained that Afghan
troops had -- quote -- "no will
to fight." The Taliban
seized Kunduz on Monday, sealing
off roads and hunting down
government officials.
Up to 5,000 police and soldiers
retreated to the city's airport,
which Taliban fighters
tried and failed to take
overnight. But Taliban forces
did capture a key hilltop
fortress
today. And civilians
were in full flight.
QADIR KHAN, Afghanistan (through
translator): Kunduz is under
fire as a result of the conflict
over these few days. The
situation is very bad. All of
the residents are fed up and
thousands
of families are
escaping the province.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The loss of
Kunduz was a blow to President
Ashraf Ghani and his fractious
national unity government. Ghani
and chief executive officer
Abdullah Abdullah faced
angry denunciations in the
Afghan Parliament today.
IQBAL SAFI, Afghan Parliament
Member (through translator): The
leaders of the Afghan national
unity government are unable to
administrate the current
situation in the country. The
people must stand against them
and the people must stone them
and kill them in their palaces.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All of this
came with some 9,800 American
troops still in Afghanistan,
largely in a training role. And
reports surfaced that U.S.
commanders will recommend
keeping
several thousand in
Afghanistan beyond 2016.
White House spokesman
Josh Earnest:
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary: We're going to
continue to monitor the efforts
by the Afghan government and
Afghan security forces to retake
Kunduz. And that will factor
into a longer-term assessment of
the conditions on the ground,
which will influence longer-term
policy decisions that the
president will have to make.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: President
Obama's current plan calls for
withdrawing all but about 1,000
U.S. troops by the
end of next year.
I'm William Brangham for the
"PBS NewsHour" in Washington.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There's word that
a ship carrying weapons from
Iran was intercepted last week
off the Southern Arabian
Peninsula. A coalition led by
Saudi Arabia says the vessel was
smuggling
arms to Shiite rebels in Yemen.
Sunni Arab states are fighting
against the rebels. A
U.S.-backed naval coalition
says, in fact, that it actually
stopped the vessel, and that
the crew claimed to
be bound for Somalia.
Palestinian President Mahmoud
Abbas declared today that he
will no longer be bound by
agreements
signed with Israel. He addressed
world leaders at the United
Nations General Assembly, and
said there's no point in
further negotiations.
MAHMOUD ABBAS, Palestinian
Authority President (through
translator): As long as Israel
refuses
to commit to the agreements
signed with us, which render us
an authority without real
powers, and as long as Israel
refuses to cease settlement
activities, Israel has thus left
us no choice. We will not remain
the only ones committed to those
agreements.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
dismissed Abbas' remarks as --
quote
-- "a speech of lies."
Back in this country, the state
of Georgia has executed a woman
for the first time in
seven decades. Kelly Gissendaner
was put to death by lethal
injection just after midnight.
She had been convicted in the
1997 murder of her husband. More
than 100 supporters gathered
outside the state prison in
Jackson. In addition, Pope
Francis had asked that her death
sentence
be commuted.
It turns out the Kentucky county
clerk who refused marriage
licenses to gay couples met
with Pope Francis last week. Kim
Davis told ABC News she spoke
briefly with the pontiff
in Washington on Thursday, and
that he had told her to -- quote
-- "stay strong." The
Vatican had no comment.
An internal report out today
finds that a Secret Service
official targeted Congressman
Jason Chaffetz for investigating
scandals at the agency. It says
the official suggest
leaking damaging information
from an old job application by
the Utah Republican. It also
says that scores of Secret
Service employees accessed his
file, possibly illegally.
The Atlantic Coast is now
waiting to see what Hurricane
Joaquin will do. The storm
gained
hurricane strength today,
brushed the Eastern Bahamas, and
kept growing. The National
Hurricane
Center predicted that it would
churn north, possibly striking
the U.S. Eastern Seaboard
by early next week. That's
likely to add to flooding in
several Southeastern states.
They
have been hit by heavy
rainstorms over the past two
days.
Wall Street has been flooded by
sell orders in recent days. But,
today, traders went looking
for bargains. The Dow Jones
industrial average gained 235
points to close near 16285. The
Nasdaq rose more than 100
points. And the S&P 500 added
36. Even so, stocks here and
abroad ended their worst
financial quarter in four years.
And a federal appeals court has
struck down a plan to let
colleges pay student athletes
up to $5,000 a year. Today's
ruling said the proposal to
offer cash to football and
basketball
players would destroy
amateur athletics.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Russia launches strikes in
Syria; the prime minister of
Iraq
on fighting is; a new round of
drama on Capitol Hill, and much
more.
Russian military aircraft bombed
a number of sites in Syria
today, deepening its involvement
in that nation's civil war. But
there are conflicting reports
about exactly what Russia
was targeting.
Hari Sreenivasan
has this report.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This amateur
video purports to be the first
evidence of Russian warplanes
in action over Syria, plumes of
smoke rising over cities as
fighters streak across the
skies. The assault began hours
after the Russian parliament
authorized action and President
Vladimir Putin vowed
to forge ahead.
VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russian
President (through translator):
The only right way to fight
international
terrorism in Syria is to act
preemptively, to fight and
eliminate fighters and
terrorists
on the territories they have
already occupied, not to wait
until they come to our home.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But exactly
what the Russians hit, and why,
remained unclear. There were
strikes near Homs and in Hama
province, and Moscow reported
attacking eight Islamic State
targets. But, by all accounts
is, or ISIL, has no significant
presence in those areas.
Instead, the Free Syrian Army
charged its forces were
targeted. the western-backed
faction
has fought Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad, an ally of
Russia. U.S. officials agreed
the
strikes may have hit moderate
rebel factions, and not Islamic
State forces. The Kremlin
denied it, but also claimed most
of the Free Syrian Army has now
joined ISIL ranks.
And, at the United Nations,
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
was dismissive.
SERGEI LAVROV, Russian Foreign
Minister: Everything --
everything was said by the
Russian Ministry
of Defense. Don't listen to
Pentagon about the Russian
strikes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Secretary of
State John Kerry was also at the
U.N. He said Washington
would welcome any genuine effort
to defeat ISIL, but he issued a
warning as well.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: We would have grave
concerns should Russia strike
areas
where ISIL and al-Qaida
affiliated targets are now
operating -- are not operating.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Meanwhile, at
a U.S. House hearing, a top
Pentagon official complained
the Russians gave just one
hour's notice of the strikes.
ROBERT WORK, U.S. Deputy Defense
Secretary: We are alarmed by
what happened this morning.
What was agreed by the two
presidents is that our
militaries would talk, so that
we would
deconflict operations.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Defense
Secretary Ashton Carter said
later those military-to-military
talks are set to take place in
the coming days. But he said the
Kremlin is making a
mistake.
ASHTON CARTER, U.S. Defense
Secretary: By supporting Assad
and thereby, seemingly, taking
on everybody who is fighting
Assad, you're taking on the
whole rest of the country of
Syria. That is not our position.
And so that's one of the reasons
why -- in fact, it is the
central reason why the Russian
approach here is doomed to fail.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Carter said
the Russian actions will not
deter the U.S.-led air war
on Islamic State fighters that's
been under way for a year.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Late this
evening, Secretary Kerry and
Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov
came out together and
agreed to military talks.
We get a closer Russian -- look
at Russia's military moves in
Syria with Andrew Weiss.
He was the director of Russian,
Ukrainian, and Eurasian affairs
at the White House National
Security Council during the
Clinton and George H.W. Bush
administrations. He's now with
the
Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace. And Steven
Simon, he's a visiting lecturer
at Dartmouth College. He served
on the National Security Council
staff during the Obama and
Clinton administrations.
And we welcome you both
back to the program.
Let me start with
you, Steven Simon.
Is this an occasion for the U.S.
to be pleased that it has a
partner in going after ISIS
or alarmed that the Russians are
in Syria helping their friend
President Assad?
STEVEN SIMON, Dartmouth College:
I think, on balance, there's
cause for some satisfaction
and the presence now in Syria of
a powerful military player with
a serious strategic stake
in defeating ISIS.
It's really the only, I would
say, tacit partner. It's
certainly not an explicit or de
jure
partner of the United States in
this battle against ISIS. So, at
least the United States
has a partner, even if it's not
official. On the other hand, it
does mean that there
is a serious friend of the Assad
regime also present in Syria,
and this is undoubtedly
a cause for concern for
the administration.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me
turn to you, Andrew Weiss.
More cause for concern or a
cause for some satisfaction?
ANDREW WEISS, Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace: I think
the cause for concern here
is that Russia is plunging
headlong into a military
adventure in a part of the world
where it's been absent for the
better part of the last two
decades.
So, I defer to my friend Steve
Simon about the impact on the
ground. It certainly looks
like this is a big shot in the
arm for Bashar al-Assad. The
question is, have the Russians
thought two or three moves
ahead? This to me looks
suspiciously like what happened
in
Ukraine, where what seemed like
a good idea, a very pressurized
decision by the Russians
to unleash aggression against
Ukraine, has backfired quite
badly.
And so when I hear Secretary of
Defense Carter today saying that
he thinks this is ultimately
going to basically be something
that is doomed to fail or that
is going to hurt Russia, I
have very little
reason to doubt that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you mean?
Come back to you, Andrew Weiss.
What do you mean it
looks like what
happened in Ukraine?
ANDREW WEISS: Well, people like
to talk Vladimir Putin as if he
is this great master strategist.
In fact, what he is someone who
is fairly impulsive. And so the
intervention in Ukraine
was done very spur of the
moment. And now what we're
seeing -- and we have had about
three weeks or so of a steady
drip of Russian military buildup
in and around the Western
Mediterranean coast of Syria,
and now he's plunging into a
military adventure.
There's no domestic Russian
political support for foreign
military activity of this type.
And I think there's a real
question, which is, he is
basically now putting a target
on
the back of every Russian
soldier and many Russian
civilians, including inside
Russia
itself.
So, he's creating a recruitment
boon, I think, for the global
local jihadist movement, and
he's putting Russia at the
center of that, as opposed to
the United States or other
Western
partners.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Steven Simon, why
was it so difficult today to
figure out who the Russians
were targeting?
STEVEN SIMON: Because the
situation on the ground is, in
fact, confused, and there is
no geolocation of the attacks
that are publicly available yet.
The information available to me
is that they struck targets
affiliated with al-Nusra, which
is another Islamist group. But,
as a practical matter, the first
priority for the Russians
right now is protection of the
regime and the survival of the
regime and its viability.
So, they're going to attack the
targets that they and the regime
have decided are most
threatening to the regime right
now, and then move on to targets
that are less immediately
threatening.
So, whoever was knocking at the
gate right now was going to get
the first Russian blow.
The other thing, of course, is
that the Syrians will be
encouraging the Russians to be
attacking
ISIS targets the United States
has thus far refrained from
attacking because they're
politically
sensitive. If there's a target
that looks as though its
destruction would be mostly
of benefit to the regime, rather
than to the Syrian people at
large, then the United States
will save its ammunition, keep
its powder dry, and strike other
targets that are less
ambiguous, if I can
put it that way.
So, that would be -- that will
be the Soviet -- the Russian
priorities.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Andrew
Weiss, for any American or
anybody listening to this, it
sounds like a very confusing
situation to keep track of who
is up and who is down and
who is being targeted.
I mean, how should we -- how
should Americans view this? Do
we wait and withhold judgment
until we see what the Russians
do over the next few days?
ANDREW WEISS: Well, I think
President Obama's been quite
reluctant to get the U.S. more
involved militarily, and that's
been going on for some time now.
So, I think the idea
that the U.S. is either going to
stand up to the Russians and
tell them to knock it
off, all that, I
think is misplaced.
The real question, I think, for
us, as the U.S. and other
Western partners in the fight
-- and the regional partners in
the fight against ISIS, is
whether we're going to bump
into the Russians in some sort.
And the Russians up to now had
talked a good game, saying,
oh, we want our militaries
talking, this is really
important.
But they have plunged ahead
without getting that
coordination mechanism locked
in, and
I think there's a real risk here
that the Russians, who don't
have the same level of
experience, don't have the same
kind of intelligence backbone to
support their operations, could
be doing things that are either
dangerous or that put Western
pilots and others at risk.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Steve Simon, why
isn't that a big worry? I mean,
there was a sense that
we were led to believe ahead of
time the Russians were going to
give the West, the U.S.-led
coalition, more advanced notice.
It sounds like they barely had
an hour's word ahead
of time.
STEVEN SIMON: Yes, I
think it is problematic.
And we have got to get those
mil-mil talks going and there
needs to be better coordination.
But, as a practical matter, the
Russians are going to be
striking in sectors of Syrian
territory and Syrian airspace
that lie outside of the areas
that the United States has
focused
on, which are mainly targets
that are close to the Turkish
border in the north.
So, as a practical matter, I
think the risk of a collision
are low.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me just
quickly conclude asking you
both, what are you looking for
in the next few days to tell you
whether this is a positive
development or not?
Andrew Weiss?
ANDREW WEISS: I think the
immediate question is how the
Russian people will react.
I have no doubt that there's
great sense of celebration
inside Assad's inner circle, and
frankly in Tehran, but I don't
think the Russian people were
prepared for any of this. This
has all been thrown at them with
maybe two or three weeks'
notice. It plays to Putin's
domestic agenda, which is to say
Russia is a big, great power, it
can thrust itself into
the international stage at its
own -- a time of its own liking
and a place of its choosing,
but there's no one I think at
home who is really enthusiastic
about this whole activity.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, we are
going to have to leave it there.
Andrew Weiss, Steven
Simon, thank you both.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now we get
the view from Baghdad on
Russia's bombing and the fight
against the Islamic State, or
Da'esh, as the group is called
in Arabic.
"NewsHour" chief foreign affairs
correspondent Margaret Warner
spoke today with Iraqi Prime
Minister Haider al-Abadi. He is
in New York attending the U.N.
General Assembly.
MARGARET WARNER: Mr. Prime
Minister, thank you for joining
us.
HAIDER AL-ABADI, Iraqi
Prime Minister: Welcome.
MARGARET WARNER: It's been
confirmed today that the
Russians launched an airstrike
in
Syria right outside the city of
Homs. Is that kind of thing
helpful, do you think, to the
common fight against
the Islamic State?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: Well, of course
it is beneficial. Don't forget,
Iraq was attacked from across
the Syrian border into
Iraq by Da'esh, by ISIL.
And that cost us a lot of human
costs in terms of people killed,
people being kidnapped,
people being enslaved, women,
children. So, any joining of
this fight against Da'esh by
anyone, we very much welcome. We
established this international
coalition.
MARGARET WARNER: You're talking
about the U.S.-led coalition?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: Correct. That's
to help Iraq to stand in the
face of Da'esh.
And if the Russians are moving
against Da'esh now in Syria, we
very much welcome this.
MARGARET WARNER: Well, that is
really the question. The U.S.
government was saying today
that, in fact, that's not a
Da'esh, or ISIS, stronghold
where they bombed; in fact, it's
held mostly by the opposition
to President Assad.
What do you think are
the Russian intentions?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: Our message to
the Russians -- I met with Putin
-- please join this fight
against Da'esh.
Da'esh is a dangerous terrorist
organization, not only against
Iraq, against Syria, against
the whole region, against the
whole world. It is time that we
all join the same forces
to fight Da'esh.
MARGARET WARNER: But do you
think that the Russian intention
is only to do that or to
also prop up the
Assad government?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: I cannot be in
the mind of what the Russians
want. But what I have been
told by President Putin, yes,
they consider Da'esh a very
dangerous organization. It is
threatening the national
security of Russia, and the
Russians are in it to fight
Da'esh.
MARGARET WARNER: Can you foresee
the day that Iraq might ask the
Russians to come in and
bomb in Iraq, to assist what
your ground forces are doing?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: Well, if the
Russians are prepared to join
the international coalition,
which is helping Iraq, they are
welcome. I think I would welcome
the Russians to do that.
MARGARET WARNER: But, I mean,
they're not part of the U.S.-led
coalition. They have
a different group. Are you
saying they'd have to first join
the U.S.-led coalition or just
that, if they say they want to
defeat Da'esh, that in fact you
would welcome their help,
including bombs?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: Yes, I think I
would welcome that, but that
they need a lot of work to
liaison between everybody there.
We need, like, a common
platform, where there should be
no conflict. We have to
deconflict
any misunderstanding between the
countries which are helping Iraq
inside Iraq.
MARGARET WARNER: Another thing,
of course, that happened over
the last few days was news
that Iraq had entered an
intelligence pact with Russia
and Iran and Syria to share
intelligence
about ISIS. Why did
you join that?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: ISIL is an
international terrorist
organization. As far as the
intelligence
is concerned, we can only gather
information about ISIL inside
Iraq.
We need the help of other
countries. Russia now considers
ISIL as a national threat to
them. It is a national threat to
Syria. And, of course, it is a
threat to Iran as well.
Now, to share this intelligence
with these countries is going to
help us. I will do whatever
it takes to protect
the Iraqi people.
And there are many terrorist
networks all over the world and
fighters coming across
different countries, to Syria,
to Iraq. I need the help of that
intelligence, as well
as the intelligence of the
international coalition, which
is...
(CROSSTALK)
MARGARET WARNER: But doesn't
most of your intelligence in
fact come from the Americans?
And are you worried that the
U.S. will become more wary and
less forthcoming sharing
intelligence
with you if they know it also
goes to Iran and Russia and
Syria?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: No, we will be
careful not to share this
information which comes from
other parties with
another party.
But, you see, Russia has an
interest. We have about 2,500
Chechen fighters from Russia who
are taking part with Da'esh
inside Iraq and inside Syria.
Inside Iraq, they are very
dangerous
guys. They do detonation. They
kill a lot of people. So, I
think to have the Russians
on board will help me, will help
my government to protect Iraqis
and to save more lives.
MARGARET WARNER: Now, you met
with President Obama privately
after this news came out.
Did he seem upset, annoyed?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: Well, I think
there is some political enmity
between probably the United
States and Russia. That
is very much understood.
The Russians want to play a role
in the Middle East. They want to
play another role in Russia.
I understand that. But, for me,
these minor political
differences, I should put aside.
MARGARET WARNER: What the U.S.
was upset about is that you, for
whom, you know, the U.S.
is providing air cover for your
troops, retraining of your
troops, didn't even give the
Americans
a heads-up. Why not?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: I think, no,
they knew about it, about this
intelligence sharing of
information.
MARGARET WARNER: They say
they didn't in advance.
HAIDER AL-ABADI: I mean, they
were -- advance -- well,
probably not in advance before
we
have done it, but later,
after we have done it.
I mean, this has been going on
for about three months now. This
is not new. I don't know
why the news was broke recently.
It's very low-level. It's very
low-level. It is not
high-level. There is no military
cooperation whatsoever.
MARGARET WARNER: So, if I might,
back to the meeting with
President Obama, what did he
say?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: It's mainly to
do with American and
international coalition support
to Iraq.
We need more equipment.
We need more support.
And I think that the president
was very much forthcoming in
escalating the support for
Iraq, for our forces to achieve
victory on the ground. We are, I
think, the only army
in the region who are
fighting Da'esh.
MARGARET WARNER: Let me ask you
about your fight in Iraq. It
seems to have hit a stalemate.
You had a little early success,
sort of freezing ISIS in place
last summer, but, since then,
you have been unable to retake
some major cities like Ramadi.
Why is that?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: Well, I think,
last time was in April, when we
took back Tikrit. And,
since then, of course,
we lost Ramadi.
But after -- a month-and-a-half
after we lost Ramadi, we started
a counteroffensive, and
we have almost encircled not
only Ramadi, but manyfold areas
other than Ramadi to kick
Da'esh out. Of course, this
summer, in particular, was very
hot, extremely hot.
I don't think, when soldiers are
carrying about eight, 10
kilograms of equipment and
of body armor, you wouldn't
expect them to fight in such a
heat weather. We have made
progress, but not as much as we
anticipated because of the
weather.
MARGARET WARNER: Many Americans
wonder, why should we keep
getting involved, losing lives
and treasure, trying to help
these countries resolve their
differences? Why not just walk
away and let them resolve
themselves? What would you say
to those American taxpayers
and voters?
HAIDER AL-ABADI: See, Da'esh, or
ISIL, is not only threat to Iraq
or the region. It's
for the whole world.
We have blocked the advance of
Da'esh to the south. If they are
allowed to go to the south,
they would control all the Gulf
areas, all the oil supply of the
world. They will threaten
the whole world. They will
establish what they consider
their rightful state, which
is, of course, terror
state, in the whole region.
We have blocked that in Iraq. We
not only stopped it, but we are
reversing it. We are
the only country now reversing
the acts of this terrorist
organization. If we don't
receive
this international support, I'm
not sure we can stand on our
own. We gave a lot of
sacrifices.
We are prepared to give more.
Iraqis are sacrificing
themselves to defend their land
and to push
Da'esh out.
If we don't receive this
international support, God knows
what is going to happen in this
region and what's going to
happen in the rest of the world.
MARGARET WARNER: Mr. Prime
Minister, thank you.
HAIDER AL-ABADI: OK, thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
questions about Coca-Cola
funding research on obesity; and
a look at racial
diversity in Hollywood.
Just hours before a possible
government shutdown, Congress
today passed a bill to keep
funding
flowing until December 11.
But today's votes showed the
continued sharp divide within
the Republican Party and it
seemed to set up an even
bigger fight in December.
To unpack another dramatic day
in Congress, our political
director, Lisa Desjardins, has
been following the developments,
and she joins us now from
Capitol Hill.
So, Lisa, they dodged a bullet.
They avoided the shutdown, but
this was despite the opposition
of over 150 Republicans in
the House. What happened?
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right.
You know, this seemed to be a
fait accompli as we walked in
the door this morning. Of
course, a shutdown would be
averted. That was the
expectation. But I think there
were
several surprises today, Judy,
and the biggest note for today
was that two-thirds of House
Republicans voted against the
bill to continue funding
government.
There were a variety of reasons,
they said, for that, but at the
top of that list, Judy,
was the fight over Planned
Parenthood. Now, it's an
interesting contrast, Judy,
because
while two-thirds of House
Republicans voted against that
funding bill to keep government
running, two-thirds of Senate
Republicans voted for it.
So, what we saw today, Judy, was
such a great contrast between
the Senate, which seems to
be running on procedure and
tradition right now, and the
House, where there is so much
anger among House Republicans,
that, really, Republicans seem
to be running there mostly
on emotion and anger.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, you know, we
have been told, Lisa, that
there's a group of, what,
40 or 50 hard-liners, if you
will, in the Republican Party in
the House who were giving
fits to Speaker Boehner,
leading to his resignation.
But now you have got 150
Republicans voting against
keeping the government going
over
this Planned Parenthood
issue. What does that say?
LISA DESJARDINS: Well, I think
we can't read too far into this,
because I think this was
a certain vote. Republicans knew
that government wasn't going to
shut down, that enough Democrats
would vote yes to keep
government going.
So, in a way, it wasn't a
complete test of what these
Republicans would do if it were
solely up to them. But I think
you're right that we have this
caucus that is the most
conservative group in the House,
40 or so members, and they are
the most vocal. They
are the ones that really are
dominating discussion, even
still, even after House Speaker
Boehner's
resignation, to the degree,
Judy, where today there was even
a last-ditch, last-minute vote
on Planned Parenthood
in the House.
It was completely symbolic. It
will not have any effect on
funding. But just the fact that
that came up yet again today
shows that that group of House
conservatives that is so vocal
really has an outweighed amount
of power on their conference.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, again, they
averted the shutdown now, but
what does this say about
the future, December, another
funding vote, so many other
things that could come up
between
now and then?
LISA DESJARDINS: I think any
student of history or Congress
or legislation needs to pay very
close attention to what happens
the next few months. It is going
to be exciting, potentially
confusing, and potentially
critical to the future of this
country, as we face yet another
deadline for the debt ceiling,
but also as their there may be
an opening, Judy, for the
next month.
As House Speaker Boehner remains
in his position, there might be
an opportunity for him to get
through or try to get through
some legislation that moderate
Republicans like, things like
the Export-Import Bank, or
highway funding, to find a more
secure source of highway
funding,
or even, imagine this, a
two-year budget deal. That's
something that the Senate
leader, Mitch
McConnell, was talking about,
and sources on both sides told
me there are staff discussion
now, not a lot of time to do it.
But if they could, Judy, that
would certainly save the next
speaker a lot of headache. Now,
the next big problem, of course,
comes in December. This funding
that was extended today
runs out then. And, Judy, I have
to tell you Democrats and
Republicans both are digging
in. I think that will be a
ginormous fight, if that's a
word.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, if those
things come to pass that you
described in the next few
months, a lot of conservatives
will not be happy. So, you're
going to have a lot to cover
up on the Hill.
Lisa Desjardins, thank you.
LISA DESJARDINS: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The number of
people who lack health insurance
has fallen substantially
since the implementation of the
federal health care law known as
the Affordable Care Act.
That's been particularly true in
the 30 states that expanded
Medicaid. But in more than a
dozen of those states,
enrollment in the public
insurance program for the poor
has far eclipsed
projections, straining budgets
and an overburdened health care
system.
Special correspondent Sarah
Varney has our report from San
Diego.
This story was produced in
collaboration with our partner
Kaiser Health news.
SARAH VARNEY: The Affordable
Care Act unleashed a building
boom of community health centers
across the country, at a cost of
$11 billion. More than 950 new
health centers have opened,
with hundreds more on the way,
all meant to accommodate
millions of new Medicaid
patients,
people like Lori Simpson.
LORI SIMPSON, Medicaid
Patient: Hi. How are you?
WOMAN: Good. How are you doing?
LORI SIMPSON: Doing good.
SARAH VARNEY: At age 58, after
several worrisome decades
without health insurance, she's
finally
getting treatment for her
dangerously high blood pressure,
as well as a thyroid disorder,
and after years of double
vision, surgery for her eyes.
LORI SIMPSON: I have nine
medications that I get every
month, and mine comes to a
little
over $200. My husband, he's a
diabetic, and his medication
alone without doctors' visits
or anything comes to
over $400 a month.
SARAH VARNEY: And for that,
how much do you have to pay?
LORI SIMPSON: We don't pay
anything. It's all covered. It's
just amazing.
WOMAN: It's a little
bit this way.
SARAH VARNEY: Simpson goes to
the Family Health Centers of San
Diego, which saw an increase
of 24,000 patients, almost
overnight, after the Medicaid
expansion.
DR. CHRIS GORDON, Family Health
Centers of San Diego: Sit up
straight. Breathe normally.
SARAH VARNEY: DR. Chris Gordon,
the assistant medical director
here, says it was a rush
primary care clinics have been
waiting for ever since President
Obama signed the health
law.
DR. CHRIS GORDON: We have
anticipated this for years, and
been planning for it. We have
capacity to take on patients.
These are patients that haven't
had access before because they
just didn't have the financial
means to get in.
Extend all the way out.
And now all of a sudden, they
actually get to come in, get to
spend time with somebody
and get to feel, you know,
like they're heard.
SARAH VARNEY: That's not to say
there haven't been problems.
Three million more people than
expected have enrolled in
Medicaid in California. Other
states have also seen surges far
beyond
initial projections, including
Kentucky, Michigan, Oregon, and
Washington State.
As successful as California has
been in enrolling millions in
Medicaid and building new
primary
care clinics, patient advocates
say the Medicaid expansion has
exacerbated longstanding
shortages
in specialty care. Community
clinic directors say it's often
difficult to find cardiologists,
orthopedists and other
specialists to see their
patients and that low-income
Californians
still face formidable hurdles
when they need medical
treatment.
For Alessandro Gonzales Gomez,
the search for specialty care
has been burdensome. Gomez
spent years working as a car
salesman and auto parts delivery
driver. But now, at age
60 and living along, he shuffles
around his home in an Escondido
trailer park hampered
by spells of dizziness.
The spells disrupt his daily
prayers and curtail his driving.
He's now insured under Medicaid,
but most of the specialists he
needs to see are an hour away.
ALESSANDRO GONZALES GOMEZ,
Medicaid Patient: On my way over
there, I didn't feel well at
all. I all of a sudden started
getting dizzy again, so I turned
and around just went and
told them, and I can't
do this. It's too far.
And I even asked for the
director of the clinic,
explained my problems. And she
told me that
that's the way it worked out,
that there were only certain
doctors that would contract with
them.
ALESSANDRO GONZALES
GOMEZ: Doctor.
DR. TED MAZER, San
Diego: How you doing?
ALESSANDRO GONZALES GOMEZ: OK.
(CROSSTALK)
DR. TED MAZER: Pull you
up a chair right here.
ALESSANDRO GONZALES GOMEZ: OK.
SARAH VARNEY: One of the doctors
he has managed to reach is Ted
Mazer. Mazer is one of the
few ears, nose, and throat
surgeons in San Diego County who
accepts Medicaid. He says
the state isn't paying
specialists enough to cover
their costs.
DR. TED MAZER: Certain
surgeries, I can be out of the
office for two hours, and we
might
get $300. My overhead is more
than that. So, that's a loss.
SARAH VARNEY: Dr. Mazer sees
only a limited number of
Medicaid patients, but he often
degrees to treat those like
Qadir Koshna (ph), a 19-year-old
in need of a complicated nose
surgery.
MAN: OK. Lay your
head back for me.
SARAH VARNEY: But Mazer says the
state is failing to guarantee
access to this type of
care for all Medicaid patients.
DR. TED MAZER: If it was
working, I wouldn't have
patients coming here from
Oceanside and
Fallbrook and from the Mexican
border and the Imperial County
area and the Riverside
border. I'm one office.
Why am I seeing all of those
people? Because nobody else is
available in their communities
to see them. Why not? Because
the rates are unacceptable, the
hassles from the managed
care plans, as well as the
state, are unacceptable to most
offices to deal with.
SARAH VARNEY: The complaints
extend beyond San Diego. A
withering state audit released
this summer found that
regulators couldn't verify if
health plans had enough doctors
in their Medicaid networks or if
the distances patients had to
drive were unreasonable.
The state's call centers were
overwhelmed with phone
representatives answering just
half of all calls. And too
often, those obstacles have
forced patients to seek help in
expensive
emergency rooms. In a recent
national survey, three out of
four E.R. physicians said
patient
volume had increased, a pressing
concern the Medicaid expansion
was meant to address.
DR. CHRISTIAN TOMASZEWSKI,
Medical Director, U.C. San Diego
Emergency Department: There's
a lot of people here
with chronic back pain.
SARAH VARNEY: Dr. Christian
Tomaszewski, the medical
director of U.C. San Diego's
Emergency
Department, says E.R. visits
have increased 11 percent since
the Medicaid expansion.
DR. CHRISTIAN TOMASZEWSKI: A lot
of these patients, what we're
also noticing, are coming
here looking for subspecialty
care. They need an orthopedist
for a complicated fracture.
They might need a head and neck
doctor for some complicated
throat problem. And they're
using the emergency department
as a gateway to have access to
that kind of care.
SARAH VARNEY: At nearby Scripps
Mercy Hospital, visits by new
Medicaid patients are up 30
percent due to the health law,
says Dr. Davis Cracroft, the
hospital's medical director.
Dr. DAVIS CRACROFT, Scripps
Mercy Hospital: They have
insurance, they come for care,
but
the overall goal is to get them
into a primary care doctor's
office or get them the specialty
care that they need, and
oftentimes that's difficult for
them to achieve.
JENNIFER KENT, Director,
California Department of Health
Care Services: We're committed
to
having the conversation with you
about how it needs to be spent.
SARAH VARNEY: California's
Medicaid program is a budgetary
behemoth that falls to Jennifer
Kent to manage. She's the
California Department of Health
Care services director.
JENNIFER KENT: There's
definitely growing pains as the
system broadly has to stretch
to accommodate the
influx of enrollees.
SARAH VARNEY: Kent says the
state is fixing its phone system
and looks closely at complaints,
but that problems with physician
access are isolated and are
being addressed.
JENNIFER KENT: We are
struggling, just as every other
state is, in terms of, how do
we bring people into California,
how do we grow primary care
providers, and then, more
importantly, how do we provide
specialists in areas where there
may not be specialists
today?
SARAH VARNEY: California's
governor, Democrat Jerry Brown,
has championed the Medicaid
expansion,
but like other governors, he's
leery of paying physicians more
money just as the state
confronts
a drop in federal aid.
The federal government is
currently paying for the entire
Medicaid expansion, but, in
2020, federal drops to 90
percent. Instead, he wants the
state to spend its money
revamping
a system to better serve
low-income patients, who are
often sicker and can be hard to
reach.
Despite the challenges, there is
evidence progress is being made.
A recent survey found
that in states that expanded
Medicaid, 93 percent of new
enrollees are satisfied with
their coverage.
Alessandro Gonzales Gomez says
he will continue the long drives
across the county...
ALESSANDRO GONZALES GOMEZ: Next
week, I have to go to La Jolla.
SARAH VARNEY: ... because his
Medicaid card has opened up
doors, even if those doors are
often difficult to reach.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Sarah Varney in San Diego.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now we look at a
second health story, one about
childhood obesity, the role
of sugary drinks in fueling the
epidemic and corporate
influence.
A series of reports is putting a
fresh spotlight on the spending
and role of Coca-Cola, a company
that's known for its
sweet products.
Hari Sreenivasan has more
from our New York studios.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Coke is the
world's largest producer of
sugary beverages, so you might
not think the American Academy
of Pediatrics would partner with
the company. But that had
indeed been the case until this
week. It was a main sponsor of
the academy's Web site,
healthychildren.org, and a past
sponsor of the group's national
conference.
It's provided over $100 million
in financial support to other
professional medical and
health groups as well. The
Academy is now ending its
relationship with Coke. And it
comes after a recent story in
The New York Times laid out how
the company has paid for
scientific research that plays
down the role of soda in
obesity.
Anahad O'Connor has been working
on these stories, joins me now.
So, I guess the first story --
or the most recent story first,
what's the connection
between Coke and the
Academy of Pediatrics?
ANAHAD O'CONNOR, The New York
Times: So, the first story I did
was looking at Coke's -- the
money that they were paying a
lot of researchers and
institutions to do research
that, you
know, was downplaying the role
of sugary drinks in obesity.
And in response to that story,
the CEO of Coca-Cola said, we're
not trying to deceive
the public. We're trying to work
with institutions to promote
active healthy living, and we
are
going to release all of the
funding that we provided to
scientists, universities, to
health
groups over the past five years.
And so they released a trove of
data showing this extensive
number of grants. And in that
data, we saw that the American
Academy of Pediatrics was in
there, and Coke had provided
something like $3 million to the
Academy, at least over the past
five years.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And how
do the pediatricians feel?
ANAHAD O'CONNOR: So, the actual
members of the Academy -- and
there's more than 64,000
pediatricians who are part of
this Academy -- it's very
prestigious -- a lot of them
are very upset. When I spoke to
them, they said they couldn't
believe that the Academy
had partnered with Coke or
worked with it to any extent,
because sugary drinks are
considered
a very major factor in the
obesity epidemic, especially
among children.
These pediatricians see the
effects of it firsthand. They
see type 2 diabetes,
hypertension.
You know, all these diseases
that used to occur in middle age
and later in life, they
see them in children now. And
they think that sugary drinks
are a primary influence of that.
So, pediatricians
were very upset.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And yet they
are -- here they are at a
conference, and they're carrying
around bags that have Coke in it
while they're trying to tell
their patients don't feed your
kids sugary drinks.
ANAHAD O'CONNOR: Yes, so some
pediatricians said it was
analogous to, you know, a major
lung association group or
university partnering with, you
know, the tobacco industry. It
just
was completely contradictory.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, what's the
correlation? Is there influence
on academic research? You
point to a case in Louisiana.
ANAHAD O'CONNOR: So there was a
case in Louisiana at the
Pennington Biomedical Center at
Louisiana
State University.
They actually were one of the
largest recipients of Coke
money. They took something like
$7
million over the past five
years. And they just recently
released the results of a major
worldwide study that looked at
obesity in children and the
major factors of the epidemic.
And they found that some of the
major causes were a lack of
sleep, a lack of exercise,
television
The one thing they didn't
mention was sugary drinks. And
that seemed very striking,
because
you look at other independent
research, and it's all pointing
to sugary drinks. But the
universities and institutions
that are taking Coke money, many
of them are, you know, seeming
to exclude sugary drinks from,
you know, the obesity epidemic.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And how
singular is Coke in this? I
mean, in the past, there have
been
companies, industries, lobbying
efforts on Capitol Hill.
Certainly, that still happens.
Are there other food companies
or beverage companies that are
trying this?
ANAHAD O'CONNOR: So, Coke is
certainly part of several
lobbying and trade groups where
-- that are -- also include
other large corporations and
food and industry players.
But Coca-Cola really seemed to
have been out front on this. I
talked to one expert, Marion
Nestle at NYU, who wrote a book
called "Soda Politics" and
studies the beverage industry
and the food industry, and she
said that she had never seen
another corporation that had
such a hand in so many
public institutions.
You know, Coke has partnered
with all of these academic and
medical groups. They have
partnered
with the Boys and Girls Club.
They have partnered with
minority groups like the NAACP
and the
Hispanic Federation. And, you
know, they're winning loyalty
and allies.
So, for example, when Michael
Bloomberg, you know, tried to
introduce his, you know, soda
cap and restrictions in 2012,
the beverage industry, supported
by Coke, filed a lawsuit
against Michael Bloomberg, and
the NAACP and the Hispanic
Federation actually filed amicus
briefs supporting the beverage
industry against Bloomberg.
And that was very shocking,
because the minority communities
have a disproportionately high
prevalence of obesity, and, you
know, they seemed to be able to
benefit the most from
soda restrictions. And yet these
groups were siding with
industry.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Anahad
O'Connor of The New York Times,
thanks so much for joining us.
ANAHAD O'CONNOR: Thank
you for having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to another
installment in our ongoing
series Race Matters.
This year, a record number of
African-American actors won Emmy
Awards for outstanding
performances
on television.
Special correspondent Charlayne
Hunter-Gault explores why what
we are seeing on television
is finally becoming
more diverse.
MAN: Viola Davis, "How to
Get Away With Murder."
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Viola
Davis won an Emmy for
outstanding lead actress in a
drama
series last week, she made
history as the first black woman
to win in that category.
And she called on a history that
dates back to the 1800s with
words spoken by the abolitionist
Harriet Tubman.
VIOLA DAVIS, Actress: In my
mind, I see a line, and over
that line, I see green fields
and lovely flowers and beautiful
white women with their arms
stretched out to me over that
line. But I can't seem to get
there no how. I can't seem to
get over that line.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: But
Davis was using Tubman's words
to illustrate lack of
opportunities
in the movie industry for
African-American women today,
saying:
VIOLA DAVIS: You cannot win an
Emmy for roles that are simply
not there.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: To
pursue that further, we met up
with a man who's been involved
in
looking at just that issue over
time. He's Darnell Hunt, chair
of the department of sociology
at UCLA, and the head of its
Ralph Bunche Center for
African-American Studies.
Professor Darnell Hunt,
thank you for joining us.
DARNELL HUNT, Chair, Department
of Sociology, UCLA: I'm glad to
be here.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: The
other night at the Emmy Awards,
Viola Davis seems to have
really struck a nerve, which
coincides, incidentally, with
the research you have been
doing.
DARNELL HUNT: Yes.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Tell us
a little bit about what she had
to say and how that resonated
with your studies.
DARNELL HUNT: Well, you know, I
think that Viola made a really
important point. It's
hard to win awards if there are
no roles, you know? And that's
been the history.
It's an industry that's been
dominated by white men for
generations. And, unfortunately,
it's woefully out of step with
where America is going. I mean,
we're almost 40 percent
minority right now, and clearly
a little bit more than 50
percent female.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Well,
aside from the basic fairness --
and that's a huge one, obviously
-- but what else is wrong with
the kinds of equations that you
have spelled out?
DARNELL HUNT: On the one hand,
there's the question of
employment. You know, it's just
unfair that talent of color
aren't given the same
opportunities as white and male
actors,
directors, producers,
writers, et cetera.
But, more importantly, as a
sociologist, I'm interested in
the impact on society. So, when
we talk about representations,
meaning the images that
circulate, if you don't have
diversity
in the media, it's not likely
that you're going to generate
and circulate the types
of images that are healthy in
a diverse democratic society.
The more we see images that
reproduce this notion that white
men are in charge, the more
we start to normalize that idea,
and it becomes hard for people
of color, particularly youth,
to think about the possibilities
that are there before them, to
aspire to certain types
of careers if they tonight see
those role models reflected in
the media.
At the same time, we also know
that people learn a lot about
what they think they know
about other people from what
they see in the media. If they
see certain types of images
reproduced over and over again
for other groups that limit them
to narrow types of roles and
portrayals, they start to take
those prejudices into their
interactions with those people
in real society, and that
creates all kinds of
discriminatory problems.
I mean, right now, we're
grappling with racial profiling.
All these fears about young
black
men in some ways are related to
types of images that have
circulated about young black men
throughout our history.
So, from the very beginning, we
designed our study to look at
the relationship between
diversity and the bottom line,
since that's what the industry
is. It's about making money.
TV shows that roughly reflect
the diversity of American
society, that is, between 30
percent
and 40 percent diverse on the
screen, on average, had the
highest ratings.
And that was like a clarion call
for a lot of people in the
industry who had no idea,
because there are so few
shows that are that diverse.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: You did
something concrete to help
change that. Tell us a little
bit about that.
DARNELL HUNT: Well, the first
thing we did was, when we
conceived of the study, we
decided
we were going to go to the
industry directly for support.
Our rationale was that if we
went directly to the industry
for support, they would be
forced, if they supported the
study, to read it. You know,
it's quite as simple as that.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Excuse
me. Who are you talking to?
DARNELL HUNT: Well, we're
talking to people in the
industry directly. We're talking
to...
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT:
Behind-the-camera people?
DARNELL HUNT: Well, the people
who make the decisions. We're
talking to the people who
make up the executive suites
that are about 94 percent white
and 100 percent male if you
look at the major Hollywood
studios, 94 percent white and 86
percent male if you look at the
television networks.
We're talking about an industry
that is heavily controlled by
white men. So, we're talking
to them. We're telling them
what's wrong with this picture.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: And what
kind of reaction are you
getting?
DARNELL HUNT: Well, you know,
for years, people would say,
yes, diversity is a great thing,
but they thought of it as a
luxury, something that we will
get around to at some point.
But when you start connecting
diversity to the bottom line, to
the dollars, to shareholder
value, suddenly, it becomes
more of an imperative.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: How do
you think this is going to
impact the racial discourse that
we have in this country now,
which is really very difficult
and often very toxic?
DARNELL HUNT: Yes,
yes. Yes, I agree.
And where we are right now with
race is very difficult. I mean,
it's sort of a period of
contradictions. I mean, we have
an African-American president.
And that has created the
illusion
for a number of people that
we're beyond race, that race
doesn't matter anymore. And yet
we have all these high-profile
cases around the country of
racial profiling, of vigilantism
and so forth and so on and
that's rooted in race, racial
hate crimes, et cetera, et
cetera,
et cetera.
Race is a core reality of
American experience. Media
images on television need to
reflect
that reality to help people who
consume media and who don't have
the day-to-day, face-to-face
contact with others, or where
that contact is minimal, to help
them have a greater appreciation
of other experiences and how
they're all part of the American
fabric.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: So
that's your solution, more
diversity. And how long do you
think
it's going to take? And how do
you see it happening? What is
the solution?
DARNELL HUNT: I don't believe
that there's a silver bullet,
that if you just do this
one thing, you solve the
problems of the world.
I think that it will require
lots of interventions on lots of
fronts. I think there needs to
be continuing public pressure to
demand the types of diversity on
screen that are reflective
of American diversity.
People in the industry
themselves, that is to say,
those who are in charge, need to
get
the memo and recognize that the
bottom line also is going to be
increasingly dependent
upon diversity. And I think that
you need more diverse voices in
the writers room. You
need more diverse voices
pitching TV ideas, movie ideas.
And the stories themselves, not
just the characters in the
story, but the stories need to
be more diverse, and from
the perspective of
other types of people.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: You have
sat down with industry
executives. Were they receptive
to your positions that they
needed to be more diverse?
DARNELL HUNT: Absolutely.
We're getting really strong
acceptance of our study among
major decision-makers in the
industry. In fact, a number of
them, a number of major studios
and networks, have already
signed on as financial
sponsors of our study.
And we're really careful to
diversify that group, because we
want to maintain our
independence
and our objectivity as
researchers. But, nonetheless,
we think it's valuable to have
them as stakeholders
in the process, because they're
likely to use the results.
CHARLAYNE HUNTER-GAULT: Well,
Professor Darnell Hunt, thank
you.
DARNELL HUNT: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That brings us to
our "NewsHour" Shares of the
day, something that caught our
eye which might be of
interest to you, too.
We have two events of note this
evening. The first comes from
East China, where a massive
so-called tidal bore pushed up
the Qiantang River today.
Thousands watched as the leading
edge of the incoming tide roared
in, crashing into riverbanks and
dams along the way. It
was the largest tidal bore in
the area in 10 years and was
caused by high tides linked
to the same lunar cycle that
brought us Sunday's blood moon.
And a new world record was set
in the skies of Southern
California yesterday afternoon.
For a brief moment, 202
skydivers from 30 different
countries gripped each other's
hands,
arms and legs while 10,000 feet
up in the air. By forming not
one, but two massive human
snowflakes, the skydivers
created the largest aerial
sequential formation of all
time. The
accomplishment smashed the
old record of 117 people.
I'm glad there's somebody out
there willing to do that.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow evening. For all
of us at the "PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.